# The Best Instant Coffee, Ranked

Source: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-instant-coffee/
Type: comprehensive
Date: 2024-03-14T17:51:23.000Z

---

The best Photo: Sarah Kobos Our pick The Canyon instant coffee tasted the most like freshly brewed coffee, and it was one of the most nuanced cups we drank. Marguerite found that it didn’t have a strong aroma, but it still smelled like a balanced cup. She noted, “This one tastes surprisingly like decent medium-roast coffee, but sour and a bit papery on the finish.” Marilyn said the aroma had hints of “chocolate, cherry, and a little bit of brown paper.” We all found that its sour notes grew more intense as we drank it, but the acidity wasn’t overwhelming. The bottom line: a very drinkable cup. The downside is that Canyon sells its instant coffee only in single-serving packets, which is handy when you’re on the go, but not ideal if you want to make a lot of coffee at once. It’s also quite pricey per serving. And we’ve noticed that it’s often sold out on Canyon’s website. You may be able to find it elsewhere online for a bit more money, but if not, consider one of our other favorites. Cost per serving: about $3.30 Photo: Sarah Kobos Our pick The Verve instant coffee had a very mild aroma that was a touch malty and papery, with a pleasant roasted scent. I found that it tasted a bit more sour than the Canyon coffee. Marguerite said that it reminded her of the coffee at her neighborhood brunch spot: “It’s totally middle-of-the-road in a fine way.” Marilyn found the Verve a bit bland, but she picked up a slight berry or citrus zing. She also brewed it again using 9 ounces of water (instead of the recommended 10 ounces) and found it to be a much more balanced, flavorful cup. It has some acidity, but its mild flavor isn’t likely to offend anyone. Like Canyon, Verve sells its coffee only in individual packets, but they’re a little cheaper per serving. Cost per serving: about $2.70 Photo: Sarah Kobos Our pick The Mount Hagen was our favorite instant brand in our 2017 taste test, and it got high marks again in this round of testing. The flavor wasn’t that pronounced, and I found it more watery than the Canyon or Verve coffees. However, it has a decent body that “lingers on the tongue nicely,” as Marilyn wrote in her notes. “The aftertaste is okay,” said Marguerite, “like gas station coffee.” We all agreed that the flavor came out more as the coffee sat for a minute or two. We think it’s a solid cup of generic coffee, like you’d expect to find at a diner. Unlike Canyon and Verve, which sell their coffees only in single-serving packets, Mount Hagen also sells this coffee in a larger, 3.53-ounce jar . Cost per serving: about 36¢ per packet or 28¢ from the jar Other good instant coffees If you like a little smoke: The Waka Coffee Quality Instant Coffee ($30 for 24 packets, or $1.25 per serving) had a smoky, slightly burnt aroma that was a little like barbecue. Marilyn wrote, “It seems well balanced, with ample depth and acidity, and a long sweet finish.” Marguerite found it watery with an “off note of rotten fruit.” I wrote in my notes that “it became more balanced and mellow as it sat for a few minutes,” but detected a slight rubbery flavor that made it less appealing than our top three. If you want a very cheap but serviceable option: The Café Altura Instant Organic Coffee (about $22 for two 3.53-ounce jars, or about 18¢ per serving) wasn’t particularly fragrant, but we did detect subtle notes of hot cocoa and tar. I thought it had a charred aftertaste, but it wasn’t as overwhelming as that of the acrid Starbucks or Folgers coffee. Marguerite wrote, “A pretty good dupe for diner coffee that’s been sitting on the hot plate too long,” noting that it was, “decently balanced, but still not good.” Marilyn wrote, “Overall, the flavor is short-lived.” Still, this was by no means the worst offender of the bunch, and it definitely offered some semblance of actual coffee, albeit mediocre. If you like Starbucks coffee: The Starbucks Via Instant Colombia Medium Roast Coffee (about $10 for eight packets, or $1.25 per serving) was hands down the most polarizing cup of coffee we tasted. I wrote in my notes, “Its burnt rubber aroma is so overwhelming—it tastes like coffee that’s been sitting in a glass carafe for hours and has boiled beyond recognition.” Marguerite just wrote, “Oof, acrid.” And Marilyn noted, “Good acid, long sweetness, and nice toasty notes at the end. But overall too bitter for my liking.” Since, unlike most instant coffee, the Via Instant contains some actual ground coffee, we also detected some grit or sediment in our cups. But testers who were familiar with Starbucks coffee said it tasted just like the real thing, and it was one of the favorites when we filmed an instant coffee taste test with some other Wirecutter staffers in 2019. If you’re a fan of Starbucks coffee, you’ll probably like this one, and we think it would hold up well to cream and sugar. If you like fruity, third-wave coffee: The Tandem Coffee Time and Temperature Instant Coffee ($15 for six packets, or $2.50 per serving) had a strong sour flavor that became overwhelming for some of us the longer we sipped it. I wrote that it was “very acidic and sour with a decent body.” Marilyn detected some fruity notes, writing, “It smells like blackberry pie.” She also said that it tasted more like a berry tea than actual coffee. Marguerite thought it smelled lightly of hot cocoa. “This one feels like a cup of coffee,” she wrote. If you’re partial to fruitier coffee with a pronounced sour flavor, we think you’ll like the Tandem coffee, but it’s not for everyone. It was one of our favorites when we tested a few high-end instant coffees in 2019, but it totally flopped in our video taste test . Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT The competition The Jacobs Krönung Instant Coffee (about $8 for a 3.5-ounce jar, or about 16¢ per serving) smelled of burning rubber. “It smells like spent coffee grounds,” wrote Marguerite, who also noted that “it has a bit of a savory note too—it reminds me of a plain rice cracker.” I found that it was watery with a predominantly burnt aftertaste. Marilyn said it was “super chalky.” The Maxwell House Original Roast Instant Coffee ($5 for an 8-ounce jar, or 4¢ per serving) had an undeniably malty aroma. Marilyn hit the nail on the head when she wrote, “It smells exactly like Ovaltine!” Marguerite said it tasted “a little like sucking on a penny, a little malty, like the smell of a beer factory.” I found it incredibly watery, like someone had diluted a few drops of malt syrup. Its stale, slightly charred aftertaste was also unpleasant. The Folgers Classic Roast (about $7 for an 8-ounce jar, or about 14¢ per serving) is definitely not “the best part of waking up.” If anything, it made me want to crawl back into bed and hide under the covers. Marguerite said, “It smells a little bit like rubber, a distinct sickly sweet, metallic instant coffee scent,” adding, “it tastes like gasoline.” Marilyn wrote, “It tastes like it was made with something else entirely. Dehydrated tires?” Aside from its predominantly rubbery flavor, we found it thin, watery, and overwhelmingly astringent. The Café Bustelo Espresso Instant Coffee was weak and watery. No one thought this coffee was outstanding, but since it’s so inexpensive, it’s a serviceable option if our picks aren’t available. The Nescafé Clásico tasted of chlorine and metal. It was also too watery, with low acidity. The Four Sigmatic Think Organic Coffee Instant did very well in our tests, but since it’s not entirely instant coffee (it’s half instant coffee, half mushroom powder) and had a number of suspect reviews and questionable health claims, we couldn’t recommend it in good faith. Why buy instant coffee? Instant coffee has long been a staple for camping, hiking, and emergency preparedness kits. A couple packets stashed in your glovebox can be handy for long road trips or as an alternative to the weak and watery coffee at your relatives’ place. Beyond its use as a beverage, instant coffee is also a common ingredient in many baking recipes, like this lofty banoffee pie and Yotam Ottolenghi’s decadent chocolate cake . And although we probably wouldn’t use a $3 packet of instant coffee for baking, something with decent flavor will make your pastries that much better. Advertisement SKIP ADVERTISEMENT How we picked and tested To narrow our list of brands to test, we included instant coffee sold only two ways: bulk in jars and single-serving packets with at least six or more packets per box. We thought that getting fewer than six packets wasn’t very practical for most people, especially if you drink at least two cups per sitting. We also didn’t include single-serving sachets or disposable pour-over options that brew in a more traditional way by steeping pre-ground coffee. We thought it would be an unfair comparison to truly instant coffee, which is made from spray- or freeze-dried coffee concentrate. It’s also more complicated to try to make a pour-over than to simply make instant coffee in water, especially when you’re on the go. We avoided decaffeinated instant coffee, and options that had added sugar, creamer, and other flavorings. And we stuck to medium roasts for the most recent round of testing, because we learned in previous tests that dark and light roasts tend to be too polarizing. Over the years, multiple Wirecutter staff members have helped taste instant coffees (we even filmed one round ), but most recently the tasted panel included me and two editors from Wirecutter’s kitchen team: Marilyn Ong and Marguerite Preston. We brewed all of the instant coffees according to the package instructions and tasted them black, evaluating their aroma, flavor, balance, and body. We took note of any undissolved granules, and how easy the packages or containers were to open, which is particularly important for outdoor excursions. After eliminating the worst offenders, we tasted our favorites a second time the following day with a fresh palate, this time black and with milk added. Though there were a couple of polarizing brands, we were in complete agreement on our favorites and least favorites. This article was edited by Marilyn Ong and Marguerite Preston.